[Music.]
[Tom Turbiville]: Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm Tom Turbiville.
[Tom Turbiville]: Ask Jack Upham about his nearly 15 years of military service and he'll be the first to tell you that his generation simply did what needed to be done, what needed to be done by all men and women who love their country.
[Tom Turbiville]: Nonetheless, his service in World War II and then in Korea were significant slices of his life.
[Tom Turbiville]: He was a ground soldier with the 27th Infantry Regiment at Luzon that spent a record 162 consecutive days in combat without relief.
[Tom Turbiville]: then in Korea, realizing his dream to be a pilot.
[Tom Turbiville]: A military career well served, and it is my pleasure to welcome Jack Upham of College Station to Veterans of the Valley.
[Tom Turbiville]: Jack Upham, thank you very much for being with us.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's start from the beginning.
[Tom Turbiville]: You grew up in Mineral Wells.
[Tom Turbiville]: You said at age 12.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's when you knew you wanted to fly and you wanted to be a military man, right?
[Tom Turbiville]: That's right.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you were able to do that and went on to Riverside Military Academy.
[Tom Turbiville]: Sort of talk about your youth and how it led to the military career.
[Jack Upham]: Well, I just saw people flying, and we had a National Guard Force Cavalry Regiment there at Mineral Wells.
[Jack Upham]: And I guess I liked it.
[Jack Upham]: You liked it.
[Jack Upham]: So I went on to military school for part of my education.
[Jack Upham]: And being an ROTC school, I wound up with a second lieutenant's commission.
[Jack Upham]: and walked across the stage, got some papers and orders to active duty at the same time.
[Jack Upham]: Well, that was the fast track one.
[Jack Upham]: And three days later, I'm in Camp Walder, Texas.
[Jack Upham]: Of all the things, commanding a rifle company because the
[Jack Upham]: were short on officers that early in the stage.
[Jack Upham]: Had a first sergeant had been commanding the company for about nine months before.
[Jack Upham]: Very shortly thereafter, I wound up being sent to the 104th Division in Camp Adair, Oregon.
[Jack Upham]: And almost immediately out of there, over to the South Pacific and on to New Caledonia where the 27th Infantry, the 25th Division, was in there training to go on
[Jack Upham]: further up the islands.
[Tom Turbiville]: You probably had a little bit more training than most because of your experience way back at Riverside Military Academy.
[Tom Turbiville]: That was a school that was pretty much, you obviously did your books, you're reading, writing arithmetic, but 24-7 you were learning military and tactics at that school.
[Jack Upham]: Oh, we had tactics, we had maneuvers in there.
[Jack Upham]: Every spring and every fall we had specific maneuvers which were all carried out with the cadet corps commanders.
[Jack Upham]: We were given a mission and accomplished it.
[Jack Upham]: One of them was a defense of a river line of all things.
[Jack Upham]: And the approach march under hostile air conditions.
[Jack Upham]: These things all went on.
[Jack Upham]: And then with the ROTC summer camps that we all had to go to after the third year while you get a lot of
[Jack Upham]: a pretty healthy workout on those things.
[Tom Turbiville]: And like you said, being at Riverside and finishing that program, you were commissioned as, I guess, what, a second lieutenant coming out.
[Tom Turbiville]: And they needed officers because, as I believe you told me, you all had companies that were being commanded by first sergeants at the time.
[Tom Turbiville]: And that's why you were kind of fast-tracked to the Pacific.
[Jack Upham]: Well, that was the way it went.
[Jack Upham]: Terry Allen came back from the 25th Division and picked out a bunch of people.
[Jack Upham]: And got us shipped over, and that son of a gun kept on going to Europe and wound up commanding a division in the African invasion.
[Jack Upham]: So he got us, and we wound up down there, and that son of a gun went the other way.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were a member of the 27th Regiment of that 24th Division.
[Tom Turbiville]: And talk about that, as we mentioned, 162 straight days of combat without relief.
[Tom Turbiville]: And the Japanese were hitting you pretty much from night one, weren't they?
[Jack Upham]: People today don't know what a war is, Tom.
[Jack Upham]: They really don't.
[Jack Upham]: We went on over the beach in the Gulf of San Fernando, went inland on the first day, cut the main highway north and south.
[Jack Upham]: That night we were hit by a
[Jack Upham]: regiment from the Japanese 2nd Armored Division.
[Jack Upham]: We knocked out 92 of their tanks and armored vehicles, killed a couple hundred, captured a few, turned and went on north, uphill,
[Jack Upham]: into the highest mountains they had to the only pass there was for 162 consecutive days.
[Jack Upham]: It was like a meat grinder.
[Jack Upham]: You lose a few, they run a few in.
[Jack Upham]: You lose a few more, they run a few in.
[Jack Upham]: You lose your friends, after a while you don't know who's your friend and who isn't.
[Jack Upham]: You just keep going.
[Jack Upham]: Groundwater in those days was entirely different.
[Jack Upham]: The people doing it in those days were entirely different.
[Jack Upham]: I had a staff sergeant, Sergeant Cooley, squad leader.
[Jack Upham]: Japanese hand grenade came wandering in, a bunch of people around there, took his helmet off, put it over the hand grenade, put himself on the helmet,
[Jack Upham]: and we'd get him a Medal of Honor post-Hemesley.
[Jack Upham]: My best friend was the regimental chaplain.
[Jack Upham]: He'd wandered all over the battlefield standing up like he was trying to draw fire.
[Jack Upham]: He'd given last rites to people who were dying and helping the corpsmen out, hauling out casualties.
[Jack Upham]: Two days before we were pulled out, we're standing
[Jack Upham]: you know a relatively fire free area in there fights going on a couple hundred yards one side or the other a stray bullet comes in this man's been shot at people trying to kill him a hundred times went right between the eyes i reached down to help him up figured he'd fallen over face like
[Jack Upham]: That's the way it was.
[Jack Upham]: Yes, sir.
[Jack Upham]: They pulled us out.
[Jack Upham]: We were training to go over the beach.
[Jack Upham]: See, we were going over at Oweta down in Cuyahue was where we were supposed to go over the beach.
[Jack Upham]: We went on into the occupation, and I was stationed two miles away from the beach we were supposed to go over.
[Jack Upham]: would have been a massacre.
[Jack Upham]: But those are the things.
[Jack Upham]: But there's the 27th Infantry.
[Jack Upham]: Wonderful, wonderful unit.
[Tom Turbiville]: Among the awards that you brought home from the war were a couple of Purple Hearts.
[Tom Turbiville]: You referred to them as you got dinged a couple of times.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about that.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were wounded.
[Jack Upham]: I was very fortunate.
[Jack Upham]: I had an artillery shell go off in a tree, tree burst there, nasty.
[Jack Upham]: Knocked a big chunk of wood down, stuck, went through my pack, stuck in my back, not too badly.
[Jack Upham]: And just a graze, did a little bleeding off on my left leg.
[Jack Upham]: But another time in there, we had a lot of fun the way the things worked out in there.
[Jack Upham]: You'd haul you back down to a,
[Jack Upham]: MASH Hospital, I'd yank it out, clean the thing out, stuff it with sulfa drugs, jam a hydropodermic needle in your hind end with a new thing called penicillin.
[Jack Upham]: And they'd wrap it up real tight, take you out to the front gate,
[Jack Upham]: point you toward your outfit where it was and say goodbye.
[Jack Upham]: You went back to work.
[Tom Turbiville]: You went back to work.
[Tom Turbiville]: Went back to work.
[Tom Turbiville]: Patched up and go.
[Tom Turbiville]: You didn't want to fight the war though in that foxhole.
[Tom Turbiville]: You still had that dream that you wanted to fly.
[Tom Turbiville]: No way.
[Tom Turbiville]: So you put in for what's called Army Liaison Pilot School.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about that.
[Jack Upham]: Well, as soon as I got back, I had tried to get in the Air Corps before, but I put all the
[Jack Upham]: paperwork in and it followed me all the way till I got overseas and then they wouldn't ship you back from overseas to go to school so you just stayed there.
[Jack Upham]: But they had a liaison pilot school.
[Jack Upham]: That particular fly-in was over the front lines and behind the enemy lines.
[Jack Upham]: Justin Field Artillery doing reconnaissance work and dropping supplies and such things as this where people were cut off.
[Jack Upham]: And that sounded pretty good, so I put in for that.
[Jack Upham]: Managed to get on through it, went on through helicopter school, and then went to the 2nd Infantry Division in Fort Lewis.
[Jack Upham]: And got up there and took over the headquarters company aviation section.
[Jack Upham]: And again, almost immediately, I'm shipped out and I wind up over in Japan.
[Jack Upham]: down in Beppu in the 19th, where the 19th infantry was when I was division headquarters company aviation unit commander.
[Jack Upham]: And so lo and behold came the
[Jack Upham]: That little date in June of 1950, and the first thing we do is all of our little pilots and little airplanes were flying back and forth across the water, taking people over, taking staff people in to make their decisions what to do.
[Jack Upham]: And after the unit got in there, why, of course, we went back to our regular work.
[Jack Upham]: Yes, sir.
[Jack Upham]: But we went from the Combe River, which was the first bad debacle,
[Jack Upham]: back to the Nactau River where they managed to hold and we chewed just more or less put up a meat grinder and let them bang their heads down there till the Air Corps had just cut off their supplies and they were using up their ammunition and using up their men and not getting any replacements in so they had to start moving out.
[Jack Upham]: Right.
[Jack Upham]: And we chased them all the way up.
[Jack Upham]: I was about seven miles short of
[Jack Upham]: which is on the Yalu River, working with the 21st Infantry Regiment at that time.
[Jack Upham]: And I got to drop the message to tell them to turn around.
[Jack Upham]: It was time to choke you out of there because the Chinese had come in and chewed up the second division, which was my old division, which was on their right and farther back in and up in the mountains.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now we're talking about the early 50s now, so we've switched wars.
[Tom Turbiville]: We're talking Korea now.
[Jack Upham]: We're talking Korea.
[Tom Turbiville]: Korea.
[Tom Turbiville]: And your job is sort of an observation type thing.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were flying, observing the enemy, shooting field artillery at the enemy.
[Tom Turbiville]: Is that right?
[Tom Turbiville]: Is that what part of your job was?
[Tom Turbiville]: So you were actually flying a plane with a .45 under your arm.
[Tom Turbiville]: That was it.
[Jack Upham]: The people took a rather dim view of you looking down their throats and dropping artillery shells on them.
[Jack Upham]: So every once in a while they'd start popping away at you with their rifles or machine guns, whatever they had.
[Jack Upham]: They didn't have much in the way of anti-aircraft early.
[Jack Upham]: And we usually managed to pretty well suppress that.
[Jack Upham]: somebody was shooting at you you could get an idea where it was coming from where you drop a battery five volleys on him and told him not to do that anymore and if you missed him and got the fellow next to him he went over and talked to him and
[Jack Upham]: Neither one of them did it.
[Jack Upham]: So that was about the way it went.
[Jack Upham]: The light aircraft were constantly under fire.
[Jack Upham]: We were flying 500 to 1,000 feet because later on when the Chinese came in, we wound up with about 5,000 or 6,000.
[Jack Upham]: They came down there with some anti-aircraft guns.
[Tom Turbiville]: I asked you where you laid your head at night, and you said just the closest rice paddy to where the fighting was going on, right?
[Jack Upham]: The closest place that you could have your aircraft.
[Jack Upham]: We kept our airfields normally.
[Jack Upham]: We figured that if we were more than 10 minutes away from the front, we were too far back because people didn't have time to wait for them.
[Tom Turbiville]: Incredible.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about, let me go back.
[Tom Turbiville]: December of 49, you went to Japan.
[Tom Turbiville]: And your job, you were in charge of a headquarters company, Aviation Command.
[Tom Turbiville]: Is that right?
[Tom Turbiville]: And that was when the Korean War pretty much broke out.
[Tom Turbiville]: It broke out in June of 50.
[Tom Turbiville]: In June of 50.
[Tom Turbiville]: Lots of reconnaissance, like we talked about.
[Tom Turbiville]: Sort of kept a screen of aircraft at all times.
[Tom Turbiville]: over Korea.
[Jack Upham]: We had something over there from a half an hour before daylight to a half an hour after dark on top of the troops.
[Jack Upham]: Right.
[Jack Upham]: We had to.
[Jack Upham]: Our divisions when we went over there were Eric Johnson, our Secretary of War, was quite an industrialist, but he wasn't much of a soldier.
[Jack Upham]: Yes, sir.
[Jack Upham]: And we had lived on the fat from World War II, which meant our airplanes when we went over there
[Jack Upham]: were World War II leftovers, and they were getting pretty weary.
[Jack Upham]: And we worked on that basis for almost the entire war.
[Jack Upham]: An infantry regiment was supposed to have three battalions, and they chopped one out, which meant you had two battalions on the front and nothing in reserve, and that's what created the initial problems.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now, as I understand it, helicopters were in use at this time, but mainly as medevac helicopters.
[Tom Turbiville]: People who remember the popular TV show MASH, you seem to indicate that that was pretty accurate, how those were used.
[Jack Upham]: MASH was extremely accurate, including the old boy that was flying the helicopter at War of the Boots.
[Jack Upham]: His name was Bill Brake.
[Jack Upham]: Yes, sir.
[Jack Upham]: He was a classmate of mine.
[Jack Upham]: But...
[Jack Upham]: We didn't have them in there early because they were still pretty much experimental and they were still working around and didn't have too many pilots yet.
[Jack Upham]: So they came in there, I guess, in November or December, the first ones started getting in.
[Jack Upham]: Bill, he carried out 373 casualties from any place from 100 yards to 200 yards behind the front, sneaking in on the roads and sneaking in behind the trees.
[Jack Upham]: Right.
[Jack Upham]: Did it.
[Jack Upham]: Pretty good old boy.
[Tom Turbiville]: People who remember the TV show, they think about MASH and the mobile hospital.
[Tom Turbiville]: You said you actually spent nearly a month right next to one of those MASH hospitals.
[Jack Upham]: We did.
[Jack Upham]: I never can remember this daggone little time.
[Jack Upham]: We were flying out of a riverbed about
[Jack Upham]: We were about four miles behind the front on the Nactong.
[Jack Upham]: And there was a Mash Hospital back there supporting us.
[Jack Upham]: So we found a riverbed in there and made a little airfield, moved the whole outfit in there behind it.
[Jack Upham]: And we were right across the road from Mash Hospital.
[Jack Upham]: So we wound up actually feeding with them
[Jack Upham]: And in return, we were flying back to Japan and bringing them in loads of whole blood and flying some bad casualties back for them there as well as doing our old job.
[Jack Upham]: And we sure wore those airplanes out in a hurry.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'll bet you did.
[Tom Turbiville]: I want to fast forward because you have a story about a plane called an L-19 bird dog.
[Tom Turbiville]: One day in March of 1951, you went out and you got in a plane.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm going to let you take the story from there.
[Jack Upham]: it to replace our old worn-out airplanes.
[Jack Upham]: They had a program on coming up with some new machines and they finally decided to have Cessnas L-19 and an absolutely magnificent airplane and still is today.
[Jack Upham]: So this was long after the war had started and I had been gone back to I-Corps
[Jack Upham]: and then back in Japan again.
[Jack Upham]: So I got a call to set up a unit to train L-19 pilots, and ferry the ones that were coming to us from the States, they brought them into Kisari Zoo, the Naval Air Station, and they ship them in there, they take them out of the box and put them together.
[Jack Upham]: And they said the first shipment was 100 of them.
[Jack Upham]: And so that's fine, but the only thing is I'd never flown one.
[Jack Upham]: Neither had anybody else.
[Jack Upham]: And we didn't know how good the Navy was at putting them together.
[Jack Upham]: And where am I going to get pilots?
[Jack Upham]: It was quite a job.
[Jack Upham]: Indeed.
[Jack Upham]: But anyway, I went over there and checked myself out and did what I had to do to be able to fly it and checked a couple of other people out.
[Jack Upham]: And then we went over and we'd pick up new pilots coming in from the States.
[Jack Upham]: And they'd all been trained in little airplanes half that size and complicated.
[Jack Upham]: We'd take them over and check them out.
[Jack Upham]: We'd take flights of 10 of them.
[Jack Upham]: and fly down from Yokohama to Brady Field on Kyushu and then we'd fly them across the water about 110 or 15 miles and nothing but sharks that got in picking water because of the
[Jack Upham]: Navy ran their main line over there, threw the garbage over there.
[Jack Upham]: You didn't have to know what has to get over there.
[Tom Turbiville]: You just followed the flaming sharks.
[Tom Turbiville]: So in March of 1951, you found yourself in one of these L-19s in that situation.
[Tom Turbiville]: And then the nightmare for all pilots happened to you.
[Tom Turbiville]: The nightmare of all pilots.
[Jack Upham]: I walked out and crawled in an airplane.
[Jack Upham]: Took this flight at 10 and went down.
[Jack Upham]: Spent the night.
[Jack Upham]: Took off early in the morning to go to Korea.
[Jack Upham]: About 35 miles out, my engine quit.
[Jack Upham]: Just flat quit.
[Jack Upham]: Right over these shark-infested waters.
[Jack Upham]: By the grace of God, I got the thing back.
[Jack Upham]: We've got pictures of it.
[Jack Upham]: Got the thing and thing back to the beach.
[Jack Upham]: Managed to get it down on one wheel because if I could put it on two, it would have
[Jack Upham]: cartwheel over into the water.
[Jack Upham]: And then we discovered that it happened to be the first production model out of the entire run.
[Jack Upham]: And we also discovered that it had two heads full of grass in each wing tank that had been sabotaged.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm going to stop you there because you actually have pictures of this event after you did land on the beach.
[Tom Turbiville]: I want to go ahead and go to them.
[Tom Turbiville]: We've got some photographs here.
[Tom Turbiville]: You can see the picture right there.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now, this picture is taken with another L-19.
[Jack Upham]: Oh, this was much later.
[Tom Turbiville]: This was much later, but I just wanted to get a picture of you with your pipe in front of an L-19.
[Jack Upham]: That one there, I was checking out a pilot, and he took the picture and gave it to me.
[Jack Upham]: This was in Japan on a nice field.
[Tom Turbiville]: I wanted to show what the plane looked like in a picture of you back then.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now let's go ahead and move on to the next picture.
[Tom Turbiville]: And this is a long shot of the beach, and there in the background is your plane after you had crash landed.
[Jack Upham]: That's it.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you can see the wheel ruts right here in the foreground of the picture.
[Jack Upham]: That's the tail wheel.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's the tail wheel.
[Jack Upham]: It brought it in almost full stall in order to keep ground speed down and dragged the tail wheel in there to cut down the speed.
[Jack Upham]: And then on down the line you can see, but not in this picture, not the way this shows.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: We're going to move a little bit closer with the next picture.
[Tom Turbiville]: And there you go.
[Tom Turbiville]: There's a picture that really shows it.
[Jack Upham]: Now, if you look...
[Jack Upham]: about a half breadth over from the one big deep one, you can see that very, very faint line.
[Jack Upham]: That was where the other wheel was touching down as we rolled to a stop.
[Jack Upham]: The airplane's been pulled off center to hook it up to the weasel.
[Jack Upham]: But very faint line in there and that wheel's been pulled off of it.
[Jack Upham]: But there was no way, if I had put the weight on both wheels on that slope,
[Jack Upham]: it would have kicked me right off into the water and probably rolled the airplane up.
[Jack Upham]: So I was proud of that.
[Jack Upham]: I never flew as well before and never flew as well after.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now we're going to fast forward several years.
[Tom Turbiville]: You're watching a TV program on PBS about an aviation museum in Alabama.
[Tom Turbiville]: And they show an airplane.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you see that 01327
[Tom Turbiville]: And here is that same exact airplane that we just saw on the beach that you discover is hanging in a museum in Alabama.
[Jack Upham]: That's correct.
[Jack Upham]: Pretty amazing.
[Jack Upham]: I pulled all the old reports and pictures I had.
[Jack Upham]: Yes, sir.
[Jack Upham]: Took them over there, gave them to the curator, and he went into orbit because they had absolutely no records of what it had done.
[Tom Turbiville]: All they had is an airplane hanging from the ceiling.
[Jack Upham]: They had an airplane and a few rumors.
[Jack Upham]: So that at least got it...
[Jack Upham]: got things started.
[Jack Upham]: And a couple of years ago, another old boy, same age, came wandering through the museum, looked up and said, hey, I flew that thing in Korea with the first cavalry division in 61 and 62.
[Jack Upham]: Said it was the worst flying airplane that he'd ever been in in his life.
[Jack Upham]: Wouldn't hold a trim, worked a pilot to death.
[Jack Upham]: They took him down and pulled these pictures and one wingtip dragged in the, oh,
[Jack Upham]: water and the other one dragging the sand and the process of all of this.
[Jack Upham]: He took a look at that and he says, no, don't go in wonder.
[Jack Upham]: It was a lot of fun.
[Jack Upham]: An amazing story.
[Jack Upham]: Mac Gibson.
[Jack Upham]: He walked, Mac walked up in Vietnam, ended up a full colonel.
[Jack Upham]: He was a good boy.
[Jack Upham]: He was a good pilot.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were able to actually go to Alabama and go to the museum and see it yourself.
[Jack Upham]: I spent a lot of time over there because I had a whole batch of records and things that they didn't have.
[Jack Upham]: And it's been a world of fun working with them.
[Tom Turbiville]: We need to fast forward some.
[Tom Turbiville]: We just got a few minutes left, but you went back after your service overseas.
[Tom Turbiville]: Fort Sill is a fixed wing instructor and a helicopter instructor.
[Tom Turbiville]: Fall of 1952, you developed a case of polio.
[Jack Upham]: Case of polio.
[Jack Upham]: One of the last polio bunches that went through there, 42 of us.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: whereas otherwise they might have asked you to leave right then, you still had some value obviously to the Army and you served in another capacity.
[Jack Upham]: Well, they asked me if I'd stay on to do a job.
[Jack Upham]: Helicopters were becoming more plentiful and we'd worked a lot on the
[Jack Upham]: vertical envelopment, which is what they wound up doing in Vietnam.
[Jack Upham]: And so the National Guard and the reserve units did not have helicopters.
[Jack Upham]: So I went to Austin to the Texas Military District, spent four years over there recruiting people to go to school and establishing units.
[Jack Upham]: and getting the pilots and the aircraft into the National Guard and into the reserve units, set up a transportation corps heavy lift battalion of headquarters up at Fort Worth and got that job done and said, that's all boys.
[Tom Turbiville]: Jack Upham, you and your wife Nancy had two sons and two daughters.
[Tom Turbiville]: You lost your wife 15 years ago.
[Tom Turbiville]: You lost a son in Vietnam, Jack Sr.
[Jack Upham]: Well, I lost him to Vietnam.
[Jack Upham]: He was very badly.
[Jack Upham]: Right.
[Jack Upham]: Injured over there.
[Jack Upham]: And four craniotomies and all of that.
[Jack Upham]: They gave him nine months to live.
[Jack Upham]: He lasted nine years and had a blast doing it.
[Jack Upham]: Wonderful years indeed.
[Jack Upham]: They were wonderful years.
[Tom Turbiville]: We've got a couple of minutes left.
[Tom Turbiville]: I want you to talk about your dear, dear companion.
[Tom Turbiville]: His name is Trooper.
[Tom Turbiville]: We've got a picture of you and Trooper.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you all are both survivors, aren't you?
[Jack Upham]: I had an old dog, Noodle, for years.
[Jack Upham]: Everybody in town knew her.
[Jack Upham]: Anyway, I lost her.
[Jack Upham]: Went down to the shelter to scratch some ears from time to time for about a year.
[Jack Upham]: Walked in there one day.
[Jack Upham]: There was a yellow lab.
[Jack Upham]: No hair on him.
[Jack Upham]: Gunshot, a load of birdshot in his right shoulder.
[Jack Upham]: Weighed about half of what he should.
[Jack Upham]: They had a call to go pick up a dead dog.
[Jack Upham]: How are we doing on time?
[Jack Upham]: We've got about a minute.
[Jack Upham]: Okay.
[Jack Upham]: Anyway, they picked him up, brought him back up there, and he was unable to navigate, actually.
[Jack Upham]: They figured they were going to have to put him in the oven.
[Jack Upham]: I went out and he raised up on his elbows, went wimp, and that was the end of that.
[Jack Upham]: He's been with me now for over a year.
[Jack Upham]: And he's a good guy.
[Jack Upham]: He's a good guy.
[Tom Turbiville]: Big old handsome rascal, just as happy as a bug in a rug.
[Tom Turbiville]: Well, while you were talking, we got to see a picture of you and Trooper.
[Tom Turbiville]: And as we're taping this, Trooper's getting the bath today, so I'm sure he's feeling really good right now.
[Tom Turbiville]: He'll be unfit to live with for a little while.
[Tom Turbiville]: I got to meet Trooper the other day when I was at your home, and it was a pleasure.
[Tom Turbiville]: He's a good, good companion.
[Tom Turbiville]: No way you're going to avoid it.
[Tom Turbiville]: No way you're going to avoid it at all.
[Tom Turbiville]: Jack Upham, thank you very much for your service.
[Tom Turbiville]: I know that you're proud of all service people, and I know that you have a special thought about service.
[Tom Turbiville]: Very, very special thoughts.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yes, sir.
[Tom Turbiville]: Thank you for your service.
[Tom Turbiville]: Thank you very much for having me.
[Tom Turbiville]: I appreciate it.
[Tom Turbiville]: Jack Upham served the country he loves proudly, but he rightly insists that the real salutes should go to those men and women who paid the ultimate price.
[Tom Turbiville]: He says that it is those brave Americans we should be raising up.
[Tom Turbiville]: We do salute you, Jack Upham, for your brave service.
[Tom Turbiville]: You and Trooper are survivors, and we wish you well in your retirement.
[Tom Turbiville]: Thanks to our underwriter, First National Bank, and be sure to read other stories of other veterans in Brazos Valley Heroes every Sunday in the Eagles
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm Tom Turbiville for Jack Upham.
[Tom Turbiville]: We'll see you next time on Veterans of the Valley.
[Jack Upham]: Thank you.
Amen.